# How to implement an Elixir Concept Exercise

This document describes how to implement a Concept Exercise for the Elixir track.

**Please please please read the docs before starting.** Posting PRs without reading these docs will be a lot more frustrating for you during the review cycle, and exhaust Exercism's maintainers' time. So, before diving into the implementation, please read the following documents:

- [The features of v3][docs-features-of-v3].
- [Rationale for v3][docs-rationale-for-v3].
- [What are concept exercise and how they are structured?][docs-concept-exercises]

Please also watch the following video:

- [The Anatomy of a Concept Exercise][anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise].

As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `$slug`: the name of the exercise in snake_case (e.g. `calculator-conundrum`).
- `$elixir_slug`: `$slug` converted to snake_case from kebab-case,
- `$concepts`: the Concepts the exercise is about (e.g. `loops`),
- `$concept-1`: a single Concept slug,
- `$prerequisite-n`: a single Concept slug,
- `$uuid`: a _new_ v4 UUID (random! and unique to all other concept and practice exercises)
- `$first-and-last-name`: your first and last name (e.g. `Tim Austin`)
- `$git-email`: the email address you use for git (e.g. `tim@neenjaw.com`)

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue. Having done this, please read the [Elixir Concept exercises introduction][concept-exercises]. If you have come up with something completely new, create a new issue _first_ so we can discuss the Concept Exercise.

To implement a Concept Exercise, the following files must be added:

```text
languages
└── elixir
    ├── concepts
    |   └── $concept-1
    |       ├── about.md
    |       └── links.json
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── $slug
                ├── .docs
                │   ├── instructions.md
                │   ├── introduction.md
                │   └── hints.md
                ├── .meta
                │   ├── config.json
                │   ├── design.md
                │   └── example.ex
                ├── lib
                │   └── $elixir_slug.ex
                ├── mix.exs
                ├── mix.lock
                └── test
                    ├── $elixir_slug_test.exs
                    └── test_helper.exs
```

## Step 1: Add code files

The configuration files may be copied from another exercise. But it would be recommended to use `mix new $elixir_slug` (where `$elixir_slug` exchanges underscores `_` in the place of `$slug`'s dashes `-`) for file generation, then move the generated structure to the `$slug` directory to match the structure in this guide.

Now create the following three files:

- `lib/$elixir_slug.ex`. the stub implementation file, which is the starting point for students to work on the exercise.
- `test/$elixir_slug_test.ex`: the test suite.
- `.meta/example.ex`: an example implementation that passes all the tests.

## Step 2: Add documentation files

How to create the files common to all tracks is described in the [how to implement a concept exercise document][how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise].

## Step 3: Update list of implemented exercises

- Add the exercise to the [list of implemented exercises][implemented-exercises].

## Step 4: Add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific [analyzer][analyzer]. If so, specify what analysis rules should be applied to this exercise and why.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Step 5: Add representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the [Elixir representer][representer]. If so, specify what changes to the representation should be applied and why.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at the exercises the track has already implemented. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages that have already an exercise for that Concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing the exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[analyzer]: https://github.com/exercism/elixir-analyzer
[representer]: https://github.com/exercism/elixir-representer
[concept-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md
[how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise]: ../../../docs/maintainers/generic-how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise.md
[docs-concept-exercises]: ../../../docs/concept-exercises.md
[docs-rationale-for-v3]: ../../../docs/rationale-for-v3.md
[docs-features-of-v3]: ../../../docs/features-of-v3.md
[anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkbBqd7hPrA
[reference]: ../../../reference/README.md
[config-json]: https://github.com/exercism/v3/blob/master/docs/concept-exercises.md#metaconfigjson
[implemented-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md#implemented-exercises
